Now I just want to draw your attention back to the Wikipedia article we had a look at in the last lecture
about the value.
Same article applies to Hue and saturation.
If we go ahead and hop over into guimpe we can see that we've got the greyscale images that I was working
on before.
Now let's have a look at the colour area that I have made before and one of the best ones for having
a look at Hugh saturation in value.
Obviously the sliders are quite nice but I like this circle wheel here because it really hammers it
home as to what is going on.
So Hugh is just another just another word for colour.
So hue is round the outside of this circle.
Now value that's the up and down bit the white towards black and the saturation.
Well if you probably guessed it already but saturation is how much of that colour there actually is.
And that can be controlled by here so we can go from white all the way through to bright red.
And another way of looking at this is with these slides so let's have a look at that at the moment.
So the hue is what what tone what colour it actually is whether it's red orange yellow green blue indigo
pink.
And back to red against cycles all the way back round and starts again saturation.
How much of it there is.
So if you want something that's pink in colour you're going to have to have a red hue but not so not
a lot of red.
And then if you want a dark darker colour you can adjust the value and make something darker.
And as you can see there you've got now thousands and thousands of colours.
You could make from that.
So one of the big questions of course is how do I go about picking a colour.
Well some things are going to be relatively straightforward if you're emulating a tree.
The trunk would probably be a brown and the leaves would probably be green.
So it's nice and straightforward but if you're bit want to be a bit more artistic with it and especially
at 8 by eight you might have to be a bit more liberal with it.
It is often best to use what's known as colour theory.
And there's once again another excellent article on Wikipedia about colour theory.
I bring that across here.
This is also included in a description.
And it's linked in the resources as well.
And this gives us an idea of how colours can be mixed together.
What ones go well with one another what ones do not and we'll get into this in much more detail later
on.
If you want to get a little ahead do read about colour theory gives you an idea of how to use colour.
For the moment we're just going to use it liberally and just make something that looks nice.
So back over in guimpe we've we've discovered a couple of ways of selecting colour.
We've now been unleashed before you only had black and white this scale here.
Now we've got hue and saturation as well so we've got the whole gamut to pick from.
Now before I go off and just tell you guys I've got another challenge and I want you to make something
with colour.
I just want to go through a technique when it comes to colouring in there can be very very useful.
So let's go ahead now and create a new image and I'm going to try and emulate a pineapple.
Now I'd like to call this sort of made everything bright green didn't mean to do that.
I can very quickly just clear everything down as I go round foreground Alawite.
Okay so I'm I'm going to make a pineapple.
Now I want to call the technique dithering but it's not cool dithering it's not even like dithering
but it's where you start laying down.
I need a different colour there we get.
So this is going to be a pineapple.
Got to make it look somewhat like a pineapple or at least try to almost make my background colour white
so I can use it.
So we can make a pineapple here and we're going to use a technique where we alternate between certain
colours.
Now of course you could just stick with a colour like that and you may look at that and go colours like
a chicken drumstick.
But I don't really see the detail so we can start adding variations.
Now usually you want to be quite close to the colour you've currently got so you want maybe a darker
area on one side and a slightly lighter on this one perhaps but we mix and match the colours.
We can end up and I'm going to use the colour picker here.
We can end up with quite a nice array of well in this case leaves on our pineapple.
Now to get across the look of a pineapple It is kind of chequered if you have a look at a pineapple.
So what we can go ahead and do is make it slightly lighter on one side.
I'm just going to literally put a check a pattern there and see what it looks like.
Okay.
Actually that looks pretty good.
So we've got this chequered pattern here.
Now we can go one step further of course and perhaps make one side ever so slightly darker as we go
across and end slightly shade Ettin and that may or may not have the desired effect.
So do be careful as you go through and add spurious colour you may find that actually going back to
more of a flat shaded So it's not changing value across the surface might be better.
The other thing that we can focus on now we've got colour is more of the background as well.
So one of the techniques that you could do is let's say Blue Blue seems I think it's going to work here.
But for instance I can build up a blue background here slowly coming up in shade as we go.
Now notice are not just changing the value of this.
I'm also changing the hue ever so slightly as I come up so that we get has a slightly better gradient
than just looking like a lighter version of the same blue.
Now I'm not sure if that's going to work.
Having a look at the pineapple.
Well is it a pineapple floating on the sea.
Who knows.
And indeed I could put maybe a beach at the bottom that might work.
There's lots of things you can do.
That's the exciting thing because we've crammed into this eight by eight space.
It really starts to get as I've said before the creative juices flowing and makes you really think about
the importance of placing that one individual pixel because there's not a lot of space to place them.
Okay I hope you found that useful.
And it's time for me to stop playing with colour and you start playing with colour in the form of a
challenge.
Okay so in this challenge I'd like you to create four more eight by eight images and we're going to
use colour this time.
So you've got full freedom of the entire colour space.
Try flat shading.
And the dithering type effect.
See how you get on and try describing using these four images.
An astronaut goes into space in a rocket pulls a video now and give that a go.
Okay guys welcome back.
Let's go ahead and see if we can destruct describe an astronaut going into space in a rocket.
Okay so let's start off by creating the rocket because there's something here that I want to go through
with you whilst I've got the opportunity.
I'm going to set that back to its default and I'm going to go through the process here of actually creating
the rocket from a black and white image through greyscale and to a rocket itself.
And we can see the differences and the problems as we go.
Now this is going to be a very simplistic rocket to begin with phase.
Very difficult it's going to be a diagonal rocket as you can probably guess by now.
They need to work with the space I have.
Maybe they're in there and perhaps even getting rid of this middle lots along here.
So maybe something along those lines looks kind of like a rocket.
But it also kind of looks like a sword as well.
How can we help with shading.
Well rockets can sometimes have that sort of hashing effect on them.
But we don't want to end up with something else like a stripy sword.
We can use this negative space.
We can actually add Grey into this background.
And now instead of just being an outline we can actually have it dark on one side.
And as we crossover we can have it getting lighter and lighter down the other side.
In fact because I've now put on here.
Let's use the colour picker and back to the pencil using own n.
There we go.
We can actually add white on to here as a highlight and that becomes part of the rocket itself and maybe
a bit down the middle.
And again it can be a bit confusing as to if it's a rocket or not.
Now one of the ways we can get around this of course is by adding colour out to the back of the rocket
will come.
These are allergic to rockets that are really out of the back of the rocket would of course come some
fire some flame.
So we can actually add that in that's not very bright.
Let's turn the saturation and the value up as much as we can so we can get some different cause I'm
going to go right the way over to yellow here and put that in the red and yellow.
And now it starts to look more and more like a rocket.
Now I'm going to continue doing this perhaps in fact here.
I'm stepping to one side.
Perhaps I can make this bit darker to show that it's darker on one side and maybe slightly lighter on
the other.
Erica.
So that's just one example of many.
And of course it is time for me to go off and do a few more drawings now see back in a few moments.
Hey so welcome back.
I've improved my rocket just a little took some of the dark areas and thought well if it's going into
space I'll just make space black in the background.
And that really helps bring out the rockets.
And I really like that rock that works out really well and I've made a little space man.
He took a lot of tweaking to try and get right if I got it completely wrong.
Originally I ended up what looked more like a motorbike than an astronaut.
So again I went online and looked at the nassa website and lo and behold I had drawn a space helmet
completely wrong.
And this is the closest I could represent a particular spacesuit.
And I'd like to draw your attention to the very subtle banding of colour across the face and the helmet
it's not that much of a change.
There is a sharp change on the top of the helmet here that perhaps would work better if it was more
gradual.
I don't know but I really like the way that this is turned out.
That's the guy in the space suit the astronaut.
And then I've got a Moon Now I'm not too sure about this one.
I think we can probably have it not such a sharp change.
In fact whilst I'm here and talking to you guys I can critique my own work.
So perhaps if it was a little less or a little more abrupt actually in each change.
Let's undo some of that.
Use the colour picture.
Maybe this lighter colour here.
Now what tends to happen I think of overexaggerated the shadow itself.
If you have a look at a picture of a planet or anything along those lines the Terminator line the bit
between light and dark happens rather quickly actually doesn't happen as slowly as I had there.
I like that version of my Moon better now moons have craters.
So why don't I go and stick a kraatz or two in it as well.
There we go.
Does that work on this level yet that looks.
That looks okay to me in the small one.
I'm not sure we could play around with that for hours and hours.
Our lives just the two spots in there at the moment.
And finally he looks back and sees the earth.
This was a really interesting one.
So I've got a gradient defeated blue going across to have a light a lighter side and a darker side.
It's still fully illuminated there's no Terminator line on this one.
And we've got darker colours.
We've got the deserts of Africa.
I should have asked that.
Which side of the planet do you think it is.
Look North America here in South America we've got the South Pole Africa and then we got Europe and
then we've got England.
England takes up a huge proportion of this particular map.
Now we've got the receding North Pole at the top.
Sorry Asia you're not on this and noras Australasia OCR me or whatever it's called these days.
That place down under.
Sorry guys you didn't feature on this one but if you're from that area perhaps you have drawn your globe
differently if indeed you've done a globe.
Please share your work.
I'm just about to go do that myself and I will see you guys in the next lecture.